deductions:
***Hindu Undivided Family ('HUF')
1. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80C
(max 1.5 l aggregate)
Public Provident Fund ---
National Savings Certificate ---
National Pension Scheme ---
Employees' Provident Fund ---
Tuition fees
Post Office tax-saving deposits of five year Bank deposit ---
Life Insurance Premium ---
Equity Linked Saving Schemes ---
Principal repayment of home loan
Sukanya Samriddhi Account Deposit Scheme ---
Post Office Senior Citizens Savings Scheme ---

2. Income Tax Deduction under section 80CCC
(max 1.5 l aggregate)
it includes the contribution made to the 
annuity plan of a life insurance provider 
for the purpose of obtaining a pension from the fund.

3. Income Tax Deduction under section 80CCD


--- (backend deduction) ---


allows a deduction of a contribution up to 10% of 
the total salary of salaried employees and 20% of 
the gross income of non-salaried to the government-notified 
pension schemes.
This section includes the contribution to the Atal Pension Yojana

The additional tax deduction amounting to ₹50,000 under Section 80CCD (1B) 

4. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80D
Income Tax Deduction under section 80D is for the 
premium paid for Medical Insurance

You can claim a deduction of ₹25,000 for self, spouse and 
dependent children and an additional deduction for insurance 
of parents of less than 60 years of age, is up to ₹25,000. 
If parents are above the age of 60 can seek a deduction of 
₹50,000, which was increased in Budget 2018 from ₹30,000.

And if both the taxpayer and parent(s) are above 60 years of 
age, then the maximum deduction under section 80D is up to ₹1 Lakh.

5. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80DD
An amount of ₹75,000 may be claimed as a deduction for spending 
on medical treatments of dependents with a 40% disability. 
This limit is ₹1.25 Lakh in case of severe disability.

6. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80DDB

Deduction for Medical Expenditure for individuals and HUFs below age 60:
Income Tax Deduction under Section 80DDB, a deduction of up to ₹40,000 
is available to an individual or a HUF below 60 years of age. 
It is for any expenses towards the treatment of specified critical 
ailments for self and dependents.

Deduction for Medical Expenditure for senior citizens and 
super senior citizens:
Previously, for FY 2017-18, the limit was ₹60,000 for senior 
citizens and ₹80,000 for super senior citizens. It has been 
changed to ₹1 Lakh for all the senior citizens, including super 
senior citizens.

7. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80CCG
no longer exists

8. Income Tax Deduction under Section 24B
This section allows individuals to claim a deduction for the 
loss under the head ‘Income from House Property. It allows a 
tax benefit on the repayment of the loan of a second house up 
to ₹2 Lakh. The unclaimed amount of loss may be carried forward 
for eight years and set off against house property income. 
Additionally, any interest paid on the housing loan is eligible 
for a tax benefit. Municipal taxes, interest paid on loans taken 
for the house, and 30% of the net annual income are allowed as a deduction.

9. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80E

Interest on loan paid for education is eligible for Section 80E. 
Please note that principal repayment on a loan cannot be claimed 
as a deduction. The loan should have been taken for yourself, your 
children, and your spouse or for an individual for whom you are a 
legal guardian. There is no limit on the amount of interest that 
can be claimed as a deduction.

10. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80EE

Individuals buying a home for the first time may claim an 
additional deduction of ₹50,000 on the home loan interest paid. 
This includes a clause that the loan should be sanctioned in or 
after FY 2016-17, and the loan amount should be less than ₹35 Lakh. 
Furthermore, the value of the house should not exceed ₹50 Lakh, 
and the individual should not own any other residential house under 
his name

11. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80EEA

Section 80EEA allows a deduction for interest payments up to ₹1.5L. 
This deduction is over and above the deduction of ₹2 Lakhs available 
under section 24. An individual should not own any house on the date 
of the sanction of a loan to claim this deduction.

12. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80G

Section 80G includes all the contributions made to charitable institutions and relief funds. The contribution should be made through cheque, cash or via draft. The amount of deduction eligible is ₹2,000. Moreover, for donations made to political parties, the same deduction could be claimed under 80GGC.

13. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80GG
The deduction amount for this section is ₹60,000 per annum, and the 
section is applicable to only those who neither have the ownership 
of a residential house nor receive a House Rent Allowance . The 
amount of deduction will be the least of the following:

25% of the total income₹5,000 per monthAn amount of 10% of the 
adjusted total income deducted from the rent paid

14. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80TTA
This section allows a deduction of ₹10,000 from the total gross 
income of individuals or Hindu Undivided families. The deduction 
is allowed for the interest earned on the deposits made in a savings 
account in a bank, cooperative society or a post office. However, the 
deduction will not be applicable for the interest earned from fixed 
deposits in the bank.

15. Income Tax Deduction under Section 80U
This section allows a deduction to individuals who are physically 
and mentally challenged.



However, there are a few deductions that are allowed under the new 
tax regime. They are as follows:

Specially-abled individuals can avail transport allowance, which is 
considered as a deduction.
The expenses incurred while travelling to work will be considered 
as conveyance allowance.
Under Section 80CCD (2), investment in the NPS or Notified Pension 
Scheme will be a deduction.
Under Section 80JJAA, there are deductions available for newly 
appointed employees.
Depreciation of assets (machinery) under Section 32, excluding 
additional depreciation
Expenses incurred by employees being transferred or travelling 
for employment purposes.



There are a total of 70 exemptions and deductions that are not 
a part of the new tax regime. The most common exemptions under 
this list include –

Professional tax
House Rent Allowance (HRA)
Children education allowance
Leave Travel Allowance (LTA)
Daily expenses incurred during employment
Relocation allowance
Conveyance allowance
Interest on housing loan under Section 24
Other special allowances [Section 10(14)]
Helper allowance
Standard deduction on salary



Income Tax Exemptions for Salaried Employees 2021-22
Here is the income tax exemption list 2021-22:
(This comes under old regime)

1. House Rent Allowance

2. Leave Travel Allowance (LTA)

3. Food coupons



Here's a list of the main exemptions and deductions that tax 
payers will have to forgo if they opt for the new regime.

(i) Leave travel allowance (LTA) exemption which is currently 
available to salaried employees twice in a block of four years 

(ii) House rent allowance (HRA) normally paid to salaried 
individuals as part of salary. This could be claimed as tax 
exempt up to certain specified limits if the individual was 
staying in rented accommodation

(iii)Standard deduction of Rs 50,000 currently available to 
salaried tax payers and pensioners

(iv) Deduction available under section 80TTA/80TTB will not be 
available to the taxpayers. Abhishek Soni, CEO & founder, 
Tax2win.in says, "As Section - 80TTA and 80TTB are covered 
under chapter-VIA and the new tax regime excludes deductions 
under chapter-VIA subject to certain exceptions. Thus, a 
person opting for the new tax regime shall not be entitled to 
claim deduction u/s 80TTA(Deduction in respect of Interest on 
deposits in savings account) and 80TTB(Deduction in respect of 
Interest on deposits to senior citizens)."

(v) Deduction for entertainment allowance (for government employees) 
and employment/professional tax as contained in section 16

(vi) Tax benefit on interest paid on housing loan taken for a 
self-occupied or vacant house property: Interest paid on housing 
loan for such a property could be claimed as a deduction from income 
from house property which resulted in a loss from house property 
(as the property was self/occupied or vacant). This loss could be 
set off against salary income thereby reducing the individuals' 
taxable income and net tax liability. This comes under section 24

(vii) Deduction of Rs 15000 allowed from family pension under 
clause (iia) of section 57

(viii) The most commonly claimed deductions under section 80C 
will also go. This includes the commonly availed section 80C 
deductions claimed for provident fund contributions, life insurance 
premium, school tuition fee for children and various specified 
investments such as ELSS, NPS, PPF etc.
However, deduction under sub-section (2) of section 80CCD 
(employer contribution on account of employee in notified pension 
scheme-mostly NPS) and section 80JJAA (for new employment) can still 
be claimed

(ix) The deduction claimed for medical insurance premium under
section 80D will also not be claimable

(x) Tax benefits for disability under sections 80DD and 80DDB 
will not be claimable

(xi) Tax break on interest paid on education loan will not be 
claimable-section 80E

(xii) Tax break on donations to charitable institutions available 
under section 80G will not be available

All deductions under chapter VIA (like section 80C, 80CCC, 80CCD, 
80D, 80DD, 80DDB, 80E, 80EE, 80EEA, 80EEB, 80G, 80GG, 80GGA, 80GGC, 
80IA, 80-IAB, 80-IAC, 80-IB, 80-IBA, etc) will not be claimable by 
those opting for the new tax regime.



The above are part a total of 70 deductions and tax exemptions that 
will not be available in the proposed new tax regime.

1) Which deduction is available under the new income tax regime?
An individual can claim deduction under Section 80CCD(2) under the 
new tax regime. Section 80CCD (2) offers deduction on the employer’s 
contribution to employee’s NPS account. ***National Pension System (NPS)

2) Can I claim tax exemption on HRA, LTA under the new tax regime?
No, you cannot claim tax exemption on HRA and LTA under new tax regime.

3) Is deduction under section 80D available under the new tax regime?
No, individual cannot claim the 80D deduction if he/she has opted for 
the new tax regime.




